---
layout: news
title: "Release Flyspray 1.0-rc10"
category: news
date: 2021-04-23 23:00:00
summary: Release of Flyspray 1.0-rc10
---

## Prerelease notes

Flyspray 1.0-rc10 IS the next stable release of Flyspray.
Using the rc10 appendix (rc = release candidate) instead of Flyspray 1.0, 1.0.1, 1.1 etc is for technical reasons.
I hope to relase Flyspray 1.0 finally after Flyspray-rc10 ending these row of 'rc'-stable releases.

### Summary of Changes

* PHP 7.4 and PHP 8.0 compatible. Minimum is PHP 5.6 (older PHP versions are not tested)
* There is now the username used as displayed text for linking to a user instead of realname.
The username is unique visible for users and makes the mention plugin possible.
The realname can be set to whatever string by the user and is not unique within a Flyspray installation.
The realname or more info about a user is still visible to user with mouse over (using title attribute or tooltip)
* Tags are now searched also by the search string.
* Easy adding and removing of tags when editing a task.
* Tags attached to a task now have an added timestamp stored and the userid who added it.
* The feature **Tags** can be turned on and off.
* Experimental feature **Kanbanview** and **Ganttview** can be turned on and off in admin area. These are really just stubs for future.
* Extended **Checks** admin area
* The tab **Spam Prevention** in the admin area **Preferences** now contains a rel nofollow setting.
* Updated the database layer to ADOdb to 5.21.
* Many little CSS changes to make it more usable on small devices.

### Updated Editors

The Icons of the editor toolbars are now better suited for switching between normal and darkmode theme.
The H1 and H2 title level buttons are removed from toolbars but their usage is not forbidden.
The H1 and H2 are currently used for Flyspray page heading and H2 for the task title. Instead beside H3 also H4 an dH5 buttons are added to the toolbars.

#### CKEditor

* Updated CKEditor for installations using 'html' syntax_plugin setting.
* Has now Highlight.js plugin included for syntax highlighting.

#### Dokuwiki

* Improved toolbar for installations using 'dokuwiki' syntax_plugin setting. Some icons removed and some added to fit better for task editing and compatible with bright/dark CSS theming.
* Wrote a @username mention dokuwiki plugin to link to an existing user on comments, task details and other dokuwiki text area fields. Note: There is no notification
 sent to the mentioned users, it is currently just the detection of a @username within task description or a comment.
* The search result list and also when viewing a task from there now highlights the search words.

